This project is inspired heavily by fai (fully automatic install) by Thomas Lange
fai's homepage -- http://www.informatik.uni-koeln.de/fai/

unlike fai, paella is able to install different suites simultaneously.
it uses a postgres database to store most of the configuration,
including text file templates.

there are a couple little modules to help mirror/sync a debian mirror.
it is planned to be able to create/sync a partial binary repository,
and create/sync a partial source repository complete with its
build-deps.

UPDATE:
the paella-debrepos has the tools to create and maintain a small mini-dinstall
server, and a custom mirror (no partial mirrors, yet).


the nfsroot installer is planned to be sid based, while the nfs/postgres server
will run sarge


python 2.3 is required now

the project is still alive. :)

btw, this system isn't really designed for beowulf clusters, but for creating and
managing very complex network/system configurations, and migrating installations
by just keeping track of packages/configs/data rather than system images and
complete backups


there is information about the structure of the database in the document section
of the berlios site.



quick setup

You need to be running sarge+ on a server for nfs and postgres. The newer postgres 
checks for constraints before table drops,and the code doen't reflect that yet.  (and still doesn't)
You may also need apache running on a server. You also need a sid workstation to do
administration with.


To create a new database:
	on server:
	if you want plpgsql in all new databases:
		as posgres user, createlang -d template1 plpgsql
	else:
		createlang -d $dbname plpgsql
	createdb $dbname
	
	on admin staion:
	edit .paellarc to config db connection
	also config import_path (default /usr/share/paella/defaultdb)
	IMPORTANT:
		ugly hardcoded debian mirror,
		need debian mirror on local filesystem (or nfs).
		also needs to be in /mirrors/debian
	Note:
		need to fix this soon.
	type paella-admin
	menu->database->restore
	double-click database.xml




starting with a blank database:
	there is a blank.xml file in the config/share/databases 	
	directory that you can restore from.  then in the 
	template manager you can use importdir to import the
	traits similiar to updatedir mentioned above.



the profile was chosen to be the singlemost install unit.  This means
that paella can only install profiles.  A profile is a collection of
traits and an enviroment. Profile overrides traits.  So a variable in
the profile enviroment overrides all of the corresponding trait
enviroments in that profile.  So, the trait enviroments can be seen as
default values and the profiles are more specific.  Currently, there is
little support for profile environments (but, it's part of the design).

