.. -*- mode: rst -*-

===========
Abstract
===========

.. contents:: :backlinks: entry

Introduction 
----------------------

Paella is system for creating/installing customized debian systems.
There are no current plans for configuration updates on live systems,
that's not it's initial purpose, although it may be extended later.

Paella differs from other automated installation system by using a 
PostgreSQL database to store all of the configuration.  PostgreSQL was 
chosen primarily because it supports foreign keys and stored procedures.  
Foreign keys are used to keep the relationships in the configuation tied 
together, and this can be useful for maintaining a configuation over a long 
time as it helps to keep it from breaking due to broken relationships between 
the different parts of the configuration.  This doesn't make it impossible to 
make a broken configuration, or to break a good configuration, but it does 
help quite a bit.  It also helps organize the configuration so that it is easier to 
tell what is going to be installed and configured.




Inspiration
--------------------

Inspiration for paella comes from many places.  Since inspiration is 
what it is, please note that the following sections were written quite a few 
years ago.  While the inspiration hasn't really changed much, the focus of 
development has changed to match and make use of the improvements 
and additions that have occured in the software community since paella 
was started.


FAI
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

FAI (the fully automated installer)
An excellent installer, with the capability of bootstrapping
an entire network!  paella was going to just complement fai,
but I'm starting to prefer the configuration layout i'm planning,
so paella will probably completely replace fai.  

Much of this has been done, and now only the setup-storage 
command is being used from the fai-client package.  There is 
no need to reinvent the wheel here, as setting up disks can 
be complex and error proned if it's not managed right.

Debconf
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

Debconf is an important abstract configuration system.

Much of the inspiration for paella comes straight from both 
debconf and FAI.  I wanted to make a system that held the 
configuration for many packages in many formats and be 
able to use an automated installer to install the configuration 
onto systems.  Also, I wanted to keep the management of 
the configuration separate from the system it was being 
installed to, to keep the system from depending on paella.

Knoppix 
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

,,, and Morphix, Gnoppix, and other live cd's

Debian Live has made most of the live cd's obsolete, and it's 
now the preferred method of creating a live system.  It's 
planned to be able to use paella to generate the chroot directory 
then use debian live to build the binary image.  This has been
done, and it is fairly simple.  The basic method of doing this is 
performed in the quickstart_ guide.  Since debian live can 
make live systems on many media types, including network 
images, it's now being used for the paella installer.


Demudi, Debian-Lex, ...
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

I think paella can be very instrumental in helping configure and
install a custom network on a per network type basis, (i.e. what
machines are on the network and what are there jobs, expected
activities, etc.  I am also thinking of networks with custom configured
roaming pda's, laptops, or whatever can take a debian system.

The paragraph above was written long ago, and now there are 
custom debian distribution packages that help make this easier.  
I think that paella could still be useful here, but I have not really 
looked at the cdd package very much.  Much of the reason for 
paella's existence is to make it easier to make machines that 
are configured to perform special sets of tasks.



toc_

.. _toc: index.html
.. _quickstart: quickstart-vbox.html


